# 0x Settler

[0x](https://0x.org/)'s settlement contracts utilising
[Permit2](https://github.com/Uniswap/permit2) to perform swaps without any
passive allowance. Full source code and audits are found at
[0xProject/0x-settler](https://github.com/0xProject/0x-settler).

## Bug Bounty

If you've found a bug, you may be eligible for a bounty under the 0x [bug bounty
program](https://0x.org/docs/developer-resources/bounties). Please see that link
for eligibility requirements as well as the advertised payout tiers. If you have
any findings, send an email to [mailto:security@0x.org](security@0x.org) with
the subject line "BUG BOUNTY". Please describe the bug that you've found **in
detail** and ideally provide a proof-of-concept exploit.

## Architecture

### Allowances

`Settler` does not hold allowances, nor does it hold token balances between
swaps. This provides an enhanced security posture. `Settler` relies on the
aforementioned `Permit2` contract to hold allowances.

`Settler` allows arbitrary calls to other contracts. Therefore it is of the
utmost importance that _**settler does not hold token balances or allowances**_.

### `ISignatureTransfer` vs `IAllowanceTransfer`

In order to remove the risk that passive allowances could be exploited, 0x
Settler **does not** support the typical `Permit2` pattern of time-bound,
value-bound allowances set via an ECDSA or
[ERC1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) signature. This is the
`IAllowanceTransfer` half of `Permit2`. Instead, 0x Settler only supports the
`ISignatureTransfer` interface, which requires a single-use signature (called a
coupon) be submitted with every transaction.

This provides enhanced security at the cost of some gas and inconvenience.

### Actions

0x Settler settles swaps by performing a sequence of actions encoded in
calldata. Actions are ABIEncoded with a selector. See `ISettlerActions` for the
available options. Typically, actions are parametrized by the `recipient` where
tokens are sent after the trade and the `bps` specifying a proportion of the
`Settler` contract's token balance to be liquidated in the action.

## Action encoding

The action encoding is not stable. Do not rely on the action encoding being
preserved between 0x Settler instances. See [0x's developer
documentation](https://0x.org/docs/developer-resources/settler) for a detailed
explanation.

Typically, actions are only added to `ISettlerActions` for 2 reasons: 1) to
gas-optimize a high-volume settlement path; 2) to provide compatibility with a
liquidity source that does not support typical
`ERC20.approve`...`ERC20.transferFrom` flows.

## Metatransactions

This instance of `Settler` supports swaps where the submitting address is not
the taker. This means that we must provide an alternative mechanism for
authorizing a swap that ensures the signed-over metadata is not
malleable. Metatransactions are faciliated by the `executeMetaTxn` entry point
and use the "witness" functionality of `Permit2` to ensure that the taker's
signature is over the tokens being sent _and_ the `bytes[]` actions that
`Settler` will execute. `Permit2` combines all this together into a single
[EIP712](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-712) struct that the taker signs.

## RFQ

RFQ is 0x Settler's "native" settlement mechanism. It relies on a
"witness"-signed `Permit2` coupon from a market maker where that entity agrees
to trade a fixed amount of tokens at a fixed price with a taker. `Permit2` is
responsible for verifying the nonce, signature, amount of tokens to be traded,
and deadline for settlement (but not the price). 0x Settler atomically moves
those tokens from taker to maker and maker to taker. This is the only time that
0x Settler emits an event. In this settlement scheme, responsibility for setting
prices is delegated off-chain to sophisticated market participants who do so in
a risk-adjusted manner. This is typically referred to as "over the counter"
trading.
